Update lights docs (#67)
husarion/panther_ros: panther_lights/README.md

Package used to control the Husarion Panther LED panels.

## ROS structure

> ![panther_lights ROS structure](docs/panther-lights-ros-structure.png)

Reviewer: The image should come from AWS

Package used to control the Husarion Panther LED panels.

## ROS structure

![panther_lights ROS structure](https://github-readme-figures.s3.eu-central-1.amazonaws.com/panther/panther_ros/panther_lights.drawio.svg
)

## ROS Nodes

### controller_node.py

> The node responsible for processing animations and publishing frames to be displayed on the Husarion Panther robot LED panels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This node responsible for processing animations and publishing frames to be displayed on the Husarion Panther robot LED panels.
```

#### Publishes

- `/panther/lights/driver/front_panel_frame` [*sensor_msgs/Image*, encoding: **RGBA8**, height: **1**, width: **num_led**]: an animation frame pixels to be displayed on robot front LED panel.
- `/panther/lights/driver/rear_panel_frame` [*sensor_msgs/Image*, encoding: **RGBA8**, height: **1**, width: **num_led**]: an animation frame pixels to be displayed on robot rear LED panel.
#### Services advertised

- `/panther/lights/controller/set/animation` [*panther_msgs/SetLEDAnimation*]: allows setting animation on LED panel based on animation ID.

> - `/panther/lights/controller/set/image_animation` [*panther_msgs/SetLEDImageAnimation*]: allows setting animation based on provided images, available in testing mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/panther/lights/controller/set/image_animation` [*panther_msgs/SetLEDImageAnimation*]: allows setting animation based on provided images. Only available if `test` is set to **true**.
```

> - `/panther/lights/controller/update_animations` [*std_srvs/Trigger*]: allows updating user defined animations based on `~user_animations` parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/panther/lights/controller/update_animations` [*std_srvs/Trigger*]: allows updating user defined using `~user_animations` parameter.
```

- `/panther/lights/controller/update_animations` [*std_srvs/Trigger*]: allows updating user defined animations uisng `~user_animations` parameter.

#### Parameters

- `~animations` [*list*, default: **None**]:  required list of defined animations.
- `~controller_frequency` [*float*, default: **46**]: frequency at which the lights controller node will process animations.
- `~num_led` [*int*, default: **46**]: number of LEDs in a single panel. Must match driver `num_led`.
- `~test` [*bool*, default: **false**]: enables testing mode, enabling extra functionalities.
- `~user_animations` [*list*, default: **None**]: optional list of animations defined by the user.

### driver_node.py

This node is responsible for displaying frames on the Husarion Panther robot LED panels.

#### Subscribes

- `/panther/lights/driver/front_panel_frame` [*sensor_msgs/Image*, encoding: **RGBA8**, height: **1**, width: **num_led**]: an animation frame to be displayed on robot front LED panel.
- `/panther/lights/driver/rear_panel_frame` [*sensor_msgs/Image*, encoding: **RGBA8**, height: **1**, width: **num_led**]: an animation frame to be displayed on robot rear LED panel.

#### Services advertised

> - `/panther/lights/controller/set/brightness` [*panther_msgs/SetLEDBrightness*]: allows to set global LED brightness, value ranges from 0 to 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/panther/lights/driver/set/brightness` [*panther_msgs/SetLEDBrightness*]: allows to set global LED brightness, value ranges from 0 to 1.
```

### controller_node.py

The node responsible for processing animations and publishing frames to be displayed on the Husarion Panther robot LED panels.

> #### Publish

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Publishes
```

> - `~test` [*bool*, default: **false**]: enables testing mode with some extra functionalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `~test` [*bool*, default: **false**]: enables testing mode, enabling extra functionalities.
```

- `~user_animations` [*list*, default: **None**]: optional list of animations defined by the user.

### driver_node.py

> The node responsible for displaying frames on the Husarion Panther robot LED panels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This node responsible for displaying frames on the Husarion Panther robot LED panels.
```

> #### Subscribe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Subscribes
```

- `/panther/lights/driver/front_panel_frame` [*sensor_msgs/Image*, encoding: **RGBA8**, height: **1**, width: **num_led**]: an animation frame to be displayed on robot front LED panel.
- `/panther/lights/driver/rear_panel_frame` [*sensor_msgs/Image*, encoding: **RGBA8**, height: **1**, width: **num_led**]: an animation frame to be displayed on robot rear LED panel.

#### Services advertised

- `/panther/lights/controller/set/brightness` [*panther_msgs/SetLEDBrightness*]: allows to set global LED brightness, value ranges from 0 to 1.

#### Parameters

- `~frame_timeout` [*float*, default: **0.1**]: time in seconds, after which an incoming frame will be ignored if not processed.
- `~global_brightness` [*float*, default: **1.0**]: LED global brightness. Range between [0,1].
- `~num_led` [*int*, default: **46**]: number of LEDs in a single panel.

### scheduler_node.py

> The node responsible for scheduling animations displayed on LED panels based on the Husarion Panther robot's system state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This node responsible for scheduling animations displayed on LED panels based on the Husarion Panther robot's system state.
```

#### Subscribes

- `/panther/battery` [*sensor_msgs/BatteryState*]: robot battery state.

> - `/panther/hardware/charger_connected` [*std_msgs/Bool*]: informs if charger is connected.

Reviewer: Obstole information

### scheduler_node.py

The node responsible for scheduling animations displayed on LED panels based on the Husarion Panther robot's system state.

> #### Subscribe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Subscribes
```

> #### Subscribe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Subscribes
```

## Animations

Basic animations provided by Husarion are loaded upon node start from [`panther_lights_animations.yaml`](config/panther_lights_animations.yaml) and parsed as a list using the ROS parameter. Supported keys are:

> - `animation` [*dict*]: definition of animation. See [**Animation types**](#animation-types) section for more info.

Reviewer: Missing indentation with description of keys such as `both` and `front` and `rear` and all in depth keys.

- `id` [*int*]: ID of an animation.
- `name` [*string*, default: **NAME_NOT_DEFINED**]: name of an animation.
- `priority` [*int*, default: **3**]: priority at which animation will be placed in the queue. List below shows behaviour when an animation with given ID arrives:
    - **1** intterupts and removes animation with priorites **2** and **3**.
    - **2** interrupts animations with priority **3**.
    - **3** adds adnimation to the end of queue.
- `timeout` [*float*, default: **120.0**]: time in seconds after which animation will be removed from the queue.

Default animations can be found in the table below:

| ID  | NAME              | PRIORITY | DESCRIPTION                                                 |
| :-: | ----------------- | :------: | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0   | E_STOP            | 1        | red expanding from the center to the edges                  |
| 1   | READY             | 3        | green expanding from center to the edges                    |

> | 2   | ERROR             | 1        | red blinking twice                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2   | ERROR             | 1        | red, whole panel blinking twice                                          |
```

| 3   | MANUAL_ACTION     | 3        | blue expanding from the center to the edges                 |
| 4   | AUTONOMOUS_ACTION | 3        | orange expanding from center to the edges                   |

> | 5   | GOAL_ACHIEVED     | 2        | purple blinking three times                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 5   | GOAL_ACHIEVED     | 2        | purple, whole panel blinking three times                                 |
```

| 6   | LOW_BATTERY       | 1        | two orange stripes moving towards the center, repeats twice |
| 7   | CRITICAL_BATTERY  | 1        | two red stripes moving towards the center, repeats twice    |
| 8   | BATTERY_STATE     | 3        | two stripes moving towards the edges stopping at a point representing battery percentage and filling back to the center, color changes from red to green |

> | 9   | CHARGING_BATTERY  | 1        | solid color with a duty cycle proportional to the battery percentage, color changes from red to green |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 9   | CHARGING_BATTERY  | 1        | whole panel blinking with a duty cycle proportional to the battery percentage. Short blinking means low battery, no blinking means full battery. Color changes from red to green |
```

### Animation types

#### Animation

Basic animation definition. Keys are inherited from basic **Animation** class by all animations. Supported keys are:

- `brightness` [*float*, optional]: animation brightness relative to APA102 driver `global_brightness`. Range between [0,1].

> - `duration` [*float*, required]: duration of a single image animation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `duration` [*float*, required]: duration of an animation for a given panel.
```

> - `repeat` [*int*, default: **1**]: number of times the animation will be repeated, by default animation will run once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `repeat` [*int*, default: **1**]: number of times the animation will be repeated.
```

> - `type` [*string*, required]: required field specyfying animation type, currently suported animation types are: `image_animation`, `battery_animation`, `charging_animation`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type` [*string*, required]: animation type, default animation types are: `image_animation`, `battery_animation`, `charging_animation`.
```

> > **NOTE:**: The overall display duration of an animation is a product of a single image duration and repeat count. It can't exceed 10 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: The overall display duration of an animation is a product of a single image duration and repeat count. It can't exceed 10 seconds.
```

> > **NOTE:**: The overall display duration of an animation is a product of a single image duration and repeat count. It can't exceed 10 seconds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:**: Overall display duration of an animation is a product of a single image duration and repeat count. Result of `duration` x `repeat`  can't exceed 10 seconds. If animation fails to fulfill the requirement it will be omited while loading.
```

#### ImageAnimation

> Animation of type `image_animation` returning frame to display based on an image. Additional keys are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Animation of type `image_animation`, returns frames to display based on an supplied image. Extends `Animation` with keys:
```

> - `color` [*int*, optional]: image will be turned into grayscale and then the color will be applied with brightness from grayscale. Values have to be in HEX format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `color` [*int*, optional]: image is turned into grayscale and then the color is applied with brightness from gray image. Values have to be in HEX format.
```

Create a yaml file with an animation description list. Example file: 

> > **NOTE:**: ID numbers from 0 to 19 are reserved for system animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: ID numbers from 0 to 19 are reserved for system animations.
```

> > **NOTE:**: Priority **1** is reserved for crucial system animations. Users can only define animations with lower priority. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Priority **1** is reserved for crucial system animations. Users can only define animations with lower priority. 
```

> > **NOTE:**: Priority **1** is reserved for crucial system animations. Users can only define animations with lower priority. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:**: Priority **1** is reserved for crucial system animations. Users can only define animations with priority **2** and **3**. 
```

```yaml
volumes:
  - ./user_animations.yaml:/user_animations.yaml
  - ./animations:/animations
```
Remember to modify command to use user animations:

```yaml
command: roslaunch panther_bringup bringup.launch user_animations_file:=/user_animations.yaml --wait
```

> **Warning**:
> While using docker you will only be able to find packages that are within that docker. Only images from packages that were built inside that docker image can be found using `$(find my_package)` syntax. Global paths work normally, but will only refere to paths inside docker container.

3. Restart the docker container:

```
docker compose up -d
```

4. Test new animations:

```bash
rosservice call /panther/lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, param: 0.0}, repeating: false}"
```

### Updating animation list at a runtime

User animations can be also updated at a runtime.

1. Create a yaml file with an animation description list similar to one in [Defining animations](#defining-animations).

2. Update user animations ROS parameter:

```bash

> rosparam load /path_to_description_file /namespace
> # eg. 
> rosparam load ./user_animations.yaml /panther/lights_controller_node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rosparam load ./my_awesome_user_animations.yaml /panther/lights_controller_node
```

command: roslaunch panther_bringup bringup.launch user_animations_file:=/user_animations.yaml --wait
```

> :warning: **Warning**:
> While using docker you will only be able to find packages that are within that docker. Only images from packages that were built inside that docker image can be found using `$(find my_package)` syntax. Global paths work normally, but will refere to paths inside docker container.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Warning**
>
> While using docker you will only be able to find packages that are within that docker. Only images from packages that were built inside that docker image can be found using `$(find my_package)` syntax. Global paths work normally, but will refere to paths inside docker container.
```

This also applies to all Warnings and Notes. For consistency with other projects in our company, I recommend something like this:
```markdown
> **Note**
>
> ...
```
or
```markdown
> **Warning**
>
> ...
```

Reviewer: +1

command: roslaunch panther_bringup bringup.launch user_animations_file:=/user_animations.yaml --wait
```

> **Warning**:

> > While using docker you will only be able to find packages that are within that docker. Only images from packages that were built inside that docker image can be found using `$(find my_package)` syntax. Global paths work normally, but will refere to paths inside docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> While using docker you will only be able to find packages that are within that docker. Only images from packages that were built inside that docker image can be found using `$(find my_package)` syntax. Global paths work normally, but will only refere to paths inside docker container.
```

#### 4. Display new animations:

```bash

> rosservice call /lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, param: 0.0}, repeating: false}"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rosservice call /panther/lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, param: 0.0}, repeating: false}"
```

Reviewer: +1

> #### 4. Display new animations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 4. Test new animations:
```

#### 4. Display new animations:

```bash

> rosservice call /lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, param: 0.0}, repeating: false}"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
rosservice call /panther/lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, param: 0.0}, repeating: false}"
```

```

> ### Defining new animation type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
## Defining custom animation type
```

I would say this is more like a custom animation. Also, it disappears in the whole document

> It is possible to define your own animation type with expected, new behavior. For more information see: [Animation API](./docs/lights_api.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to define your own animation type with expected, new behavior. For more information see: [**Animation API**](./docs/lights_api.md).
```

> #### 4. Display new animations:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### 4. Test new animations:
```

```bash
rosservice call /panther/lights/controller/set/animation "{animation: {id: 21, param: 0.0}, repeating: false}"
```

---
## Defining custom animation type

> It is possible to define your own animation type with expected, new behavior. For more information see: [**Animation API**](./lights_api.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to define your own animation type with expected, new behavior. For more information see: [**Animation API**](./LIGHTS_API.md).
```
